# Probabilistic Linear Discriminant Analysis

__Disclaimer__

This model was written for
 an [Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI) project](
     http://shaftolab.com/people.html), 
 so it stores a bunch of parameters in memory that 
 are not necessary for simple classification problems.

__Paper Citation__

[Ioffe S. (2006) Probabilistic Linear Discriminant Analysis. 
 In: Leonardis A., Bischof H., Pinz A. (eds) Computer Vision – ECCV 2006. 
 ECCV 2006.](
 https://link.springer.com/chapter/10.1007/11744085_41)

__Dependencies__

If you already have 
 [Anaconda or Miniconda](
  https://docs.conda.io/projects/conda/en/latest/),
 you can automatically download all dependencies to a conda environment 
 called `plda` with the following. 
Otherwise, see [environment.yml](./environment.yml).

``` shell
conda env create -f environment.yml -n plda  # "plda" is the environment name.
```

__Usage__
1. If you have one, 
    activate your conda envrionment with `conda activate plda`.
2. Move this repository to the appropriate directory.
   This might be a modules directory in your project or 
    the same directory as the file importing this code.
3. Add `import plda` to your code.
4. See the demo below on how to use the actual model code.
5. When you are all done,
    you can deactivate the conda environment with `conda deactivate`.

## Demo with MNIST Handwritten Digits Data
See [mnist_demo/mnist_demo.ipynb](
     ./mnist_demo/mnist_demo.ipynb).
- This demo shows you how to extract LDA features from your data.
- For classification, 
   the model automatically preprocesses your data, 
   but with the default preprocessing setting, 
   it could overfit small training datasets.
- If you run into this issue, 
   one way to address it is to reduce the number of principal components 
   present in the preprocessed data.
- The MNIST demo shows you how simple this is: 
   just supply an optional parameter.

## Testing
If you created the Conda environment with the name `plda`, 
 activate it with the following.
``` shell
conda activate plda  # If `plda` is the name you gave the Conda environment.
```

To run all tests (~120 seconds with ~60 CPU cores), use the following.
``` shell
python3.5 pytest plda/  # This README.md should be inside here.
```

To run a particular test file, run one of the following.
``` shell
pytest plda/tests/test_model/test_model_units.py  # ~.66s for me.
pytest plda/tests/test_model/test_model_integration.py  # ~1.0s for me.
pytest plda/tests/test_model/test_model_inference.py  #  ~80.6s for me.

pytest plda/tests/test_optimizer/test_optimizer_units.py  # ~.59s for me.
pytest plda/tests/test_optimizer/test_optimizer_integration.py  # ~.78s.
pytest plda/tests/test_optimizer/test_optimizer_inference.py  # ~25.3s for me.

pytest plda/tests/test_classifier/test_classifier_integration.py  # ~.69s.
```

Once you finish running the tests, 
 remove all the `__pycache__/` folders generated by pytest with the following.
``` shell
py3clean plda/*  # This README.md should be in here.
```

Finally, if you are done working with the model and test code, 
 deactivate the Conda environment.
``` shell
conda deactivate  # You can run this from any directory.
```
